
Getting Started with Swift SDKs for WebAssembly

WebAssembly (Wasm) is a virtual instruction set focused on portability, security, and performance. Developers can build client and server applications for Wasm and then deploy them in the browser or other Wasm runtime implementations.

WebAssembly support in Swift started out as a community project. Any instruction set benefits tremendously from a standardized ABI and system interfaces, and from its inception Wasm support in Swift targeted WebAssembly System Interface, which made porting Swift core libraries to this platform much easier.

Starting with Swift 6.2 and development snapshots you can easily cross-compile and run Wasm modules with Swift SDKs for Wasm distributed on swift.org. The distributed artifact bundles also include support for the experimental Embedded Swift mode.
Installation

Note that these steps are required on macOS even if you already have latest Xcode installed. Cross-compilation with Swift SDKs on Windows hosts is not supported yet.

    Install swiftly per the instructions for the platform that you’re bulding on.

    Install Swift 6.2.3 with swiftly install 6.2.3.

    Select the installed toolchain with swiftly use 6.2.3.
    Run a command in your terminal application to install Swift SDKs for Wasm.

     swift sdk install https://download.swift.org/swift-6.2.3-release/wasm-sdk/swift-6.2.3-RELEASE/swift-6.2.3-RELEASE_wasm.artifactbundle.tar.gz --checksum 394040ecd5260e68bb02f6c20aeede733b9b90702c2204e178f3e42413edad2a

    Run swift sdk list to verify the Swift SDK was installed and note its ID in the output. Two Swift SDKs will be installed, one with support for all Swift features, and the other with a subset of features allowed in the experimental Embedded Swift mode.
    Swift SDK ID 	Description
    swift-<version>_wasm 	Supports all Swift features
    swift-<version>_wasm-embedded 	Supports a subset of features allowed in the experimental Embedded Swift mode
    In the future, after installing or selecting a new version of the toolchain with swiftly make sure to install and use an exactly matching Swift SDK version.

Building and Running

Let’s create a simple package to see the Swift SDK in action:

mkdir Hello
cd Hello
swift package init --type executable

Modify freshly created Sources/Hello/Hello.swift file to print different strings depending on the target platform:

@main
struct wasi_test {
    static func main() {
#if os(WASI)
        print("Hello from WASI!")
#else
        print("Hello from the host system!")
#endif
    }
}

Build your package with the following command, substituting the ID from step 5 of the “Installation” section above.

swift build --swift-sdk swift-6.2.3-RELEASE_wasm

Recent toolchain snapshots that are compatible with Swift SDKs for Wasm also include WasmKit, which is a Wasm runtime that swift run can delegate to for execution. To run the freshly built module, use swift run with the same --swift-sdk option:

swift run --swift-sdk swift-6.2.3-RELEASE_wasm

You should see the following output:

[1/1] Planning build
Building for debugging...
[8/8] Linking Hello.wasm
Build of product 'Hello' complete! (1.31s)
Hello from WASI!

Embedded Swift Support

Embedded Swift is an experimental subset of the language allowing the toolchain to produce Wasm binaries that are multiple orders of magnitude smaller. One of the Swift SDKs in the artifact bundle you’ve installed with the swift sdk install command is tailored specifically for Embedded Swift.

To build with Embedded Swift SDK, pass its ID as noted in swift sdk list output (which has an -embedded suffix) in the --swift-sdk option. For example:

swift build --swift-sdk swift-6.2.3-RELEASE_wasm-embedded

or

swift run --swift-sdk swift-6.2.3-RELEASE_wasm-embedded

Editor Configuration

This section shows you how to configure your development environment for Swift WebAssembly development using the Swift SDKs you installed in the previous section.
Visual Studio Code

If you haven’t set up VSCode for Swift development yet, see the Configuring VS Code for Swift Development guide.

Configure VSCode for WebAssembly:

    Open your Swift package in VSCode.

    Use the Command Palette (Cmd + Shift + P on macOS, Ctrl + Shift + P on other platforms) and select Swift: Select Toolchain....

    Choose your Swift toolchain from the list (should match the version installed with swiftly).

    When prompted, save the toolchain setting in Workspace Settings. This will create or update the swift.path setting in .vscode/settings.json.

    Create a .sourcekit-lsp/config.json file in your project root:

    {
        "swiftPM": {
            "swiftSDK": "swift-6.2.3-RELEASE_wasm"
        }
    }

    Replace swift-6.2.3-RELEASE_wasm with the exact Swift SDK ID from your swift sdk list output. Use swift-6.2.3-RELEASE_wasm-embedded if you’re working with Embedded Swift.

    Reload VSCode using the Command Palette: Developer: Reload Window.

Other Editors

For other editors (Vim, Neovim, Emacs, etc.) with LSP support already configured for Swift:

    Ensure your editor is using the correct Swift toolchain (the one installed with swiftly).

    Create a .sourcekit-lsp/config.json file in your project root:

    {
        "swiftPM": {
            "swiftSDK": "swift-6.2.3-RELEASE_wasm"
        }
    }

    Replace swift-6.2.3-RELEASE_wasm with your Swift SDK ID from swift sdk list. Use swift-6.2.3-RELEASE_wasm-embedded for Embedded Swift.

For initial Swift LSP setup guides, see:

    Zero to Swift with Neovim
    Zero to Swift with Emacs

Contributed by
Max Desiatov
Max Desiatov

    Docs
    Community
    Packages
    Blog
    Install

Tools

    Xcode
    Visual Studio Code
    Emacs
    Neovim
    Other Editors

Community

    Overview
    Swift Evolution
    Diversity
    Mentorship
    Contributing

Governance

    Code of Conduct
    License
    Security

Color scheme preference
Light
Dark
Auto

Copyright © 2026 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.

Swift and the Swift logo are trademarks of Apple Inc.

    Privacy Policy
    Cookies
    API

